# EE-551-WS
Final porject

Study of the generation of renewable energies in Europe and how it is correlate with the GDP

The main goal of the project is to study which percentage of the total energy produced by the European countries belongs to 
the production of RE (renewable energies) and how the production of RE is correlated with the GDP of the country under study, 
lastly it will be established a way to predict the future RE production based on the available GDP data. It has been used for 
this purpose data from the European Commission where it shows every country energy production, and data from the International 
Monetary Fund, where it gives the GDP of each country on the world for every year from 1984 to 2024.

For a start I first elaborated a program that displays a graph where it shows the percentage produced of RE of all countries under
study for a determined year (program: ranking_year_every_country.py). So, by typing in the year we can get every percentage of each 
country. This allow us to have an idea how good/bad the countries are doing related this issue for a certain year.

Secondly, I established for a determine country the relationship between the GDP and the production of RE (program: GDP_renewables.py) 
in the graph generated by the program it can be seen a priori that there is not a clear relationship between the GDP for a certain year
and the percentage of RE produced for the same year, however it is reasonable to say, that the very same year that a country decides to 
invest money on green energy does not get the outcomes right away, it takes a few years depending on the country into turning that money 
into a power plant ready to use, since the moment they decide to invest money there are a lot of months of work until that money can be
materialized into green energy, that is why I applied a cross correlation between the growth of the GDP and the growth of production of
RE. At the end of this program after displaying the three graphs, the program gives a short sentence with the lag between the GDP curve
and the production of RE curve in years.

Next step, once we have computed the lag for a determined country, we can associate the GDP growth of a certain year with the RE
production growth reflected years later based on that lag it has been computed, so it is possible to establish a relation in a 
way that if a country grows this much on a year, the growth on RE production is going to increase based the GDP obtained.
Program: linear_regression.py allow to establish a linear regression between the growth values of GDP with the growth values of RE
production years after depending on the lag.  The accuracy of the equation that relates economic growth with RE production can be
modified by changing the parameters iter and L. Once it has been determined this equation it is possible to predict the production 
of RE for any year that we have data ( this will depend on the lag), at the end of this program it can be computed the production
of RE on 2019 for a given country.

Finally, program country_biggest_growth.py behaves in a similar way that the previous program, in this case, instead predicting 
the growth of one country for 2019, it computes the expected growth for every European country and it gives the country that is 
expected to growth the most its production on RE.


